# Interactive Calculator 

This applicication will come with a regular calculator aswell as a 'calculation backup' section. The user will use the calculator to build calculations, and the calculation backup will allow the user to temporarily save their built calculations to a list. The calculations will be saved for as long as the application is not reloaded. The user will also be able to load or delete each saved calculation as they wish.

The calculator will allow the user's to build long calculations, build and push long numbers into the calculation. It will also allow the user to back track their calculations in case they make a mistake, even in the case where a calculation has already been evaluated. The user will also be able to completely clear the calculator and start over again. The user can also use their evaluated answer at the start of a new calculation.

Aside from the regular number and opperator buttons, the calcultor will also have multiple other functions. The calculator will also allow the user to turn a built number negative or back to positive and will also be able to divide the number by 100. The calculator will also send the user important messages in relation to some of its functions. For example, the calculator will tell the user they "removed" a part of the calculation when they backtrack, and it will send them a "cleared" message when they completely cleared a calculation. There will also be a button that will allow the user to move the built calculation to an enlarged display above the main calculator in which shows the entire built calculation. This will be usefull incase a calculation gets too big for the smaller display on the calculator.

When saving a build calculation within the calculation backup section, multiple settings of the calculator are saved. It saves the built calculation, last inputed data/evaluated answer, and any other important settings to allow the calculator to continue building the calculation, upon when re loaded, with out any bugs in the calculator. The user will also be able to type in a description of the built calculation, leaving a reminder of what the calculation is for. The abily to 'save', 'load' and 'delete' calculations will be done through buttons. The user will be given a clear message when one of the buttons is activated.

As an additional feature, the user will also be able to use keyboard buttons, as a replacement for using the mouse to click each button. This will allow the user to speed up their use of the calculator. There will be keys for the use of each button on the calculator, aswell as the 'save calculation' button in the 'calculation backup' section.

## Why I chose to do a calculator for my second milestone project

I decided to do the calculator project, because I thought it had simular criteria to the Memory Game project (as part of Code Institutes Full Stack Course's second milestone project choices), in terms of providing details of the logic and testing the logic. Simular to the Memory game, it required the developer to understand the [rules of the calculator](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calculator).

In order to make my project a bit more original, I decided to add the Calculations Backup section.

## UX

As a strictly front end project, I will set it out to meet the users demands as much as possible, while keeping it simple and easy to use for users.

The following are a list of user stories this application will set out to meet, in which describe what kind of user this project is for. Each user story is from the user's perspective and each describes what they want...

- Upon loading the application, I want to be able to use the calculator and calculator backup section immediately, and not worry about having to login or any unnecessary loading time or webpage intros.
- I want to be able to build long calculations, with numbers and opperators, and then evaluate the calculations with the 'equals' button.
- I want to be able to view my built calculation on one line and as much as possible within the calculation screen width.
- I want the option to switch to a larger screen to show my entire built calculation, and to be able to hide or show it when ever I want.
- I want to be able to remove the last built number and/or inputed operator, and to be able to continuously back track the calculation using a 'remove' button, ending the calculation at the next previous number in the calculation. 
- I want to be able to completely clear a calculation, so I can start a new calculation.
- I want to be able to build a long number from inputing the number button, with its maximum length as the width of the screen, and to be able to add a decimal point value in the number where it's needed.
- I want to be able to utilise a plus, multiply, substract or divide operator, and to continuously change my choice of operator, when clicking one of the operators.
- I want to be able to continuously see my input. When I build a number, I want to be able see it being built. When I switch to a an operator, I want to see the operator I will be using before using it (with the exception of the equals button).
- I want to be able to push my previously built numbers and utilised operators into the calculator, when switching between building numbers and utilising operators. i.e. When I build a number, it is pushed into the calculator from utilising an operator.
- I want to be able to evaluate a built calculation, which starts and ends with a number. The equals button should evaluate the calculation and then push '=' at the end of the calculation for extra display.
- I want to be able to view the answer of the evaluated calculation in the input field, and I want to be able to push the answer into a new calculation after I press a new operator button.
- I want to be able to turn a positive inputed number / answer into its negative equivilent, and visa versa. I want to be able to do this continuously.
- I want to be able to divide a inputed number / answer by 100 continuously.
- I want to be able to save my built calculation and last inputed data/evaluated answer to a list, in which I can also add a description to each saved calculation prior to saving it.
- For each saved calculation, I want to be able re load each to the calculator, in order to continue building the calculation, from where I last left it.
- For each saved calculation, I want to be able to delete them instantly.
- Upon clicking 'Save Calculation', 'Delete' and 'Load' buttons, I want to be clearly alerted they have been activated, or alerted when there is an error upon clicking them, i.e. if the saved calculations list has reached its full capacity, I want to be alerted that no more can be saved. If there is enough space for saving the built calcualtion, I still wish to be alerted that it has been saved.
- Upon loading a calculation and if the calculator is not visible upon the screen (i.e. smaller screens), I want to be scrolled back to the calculator.

### Mockups, Diagrams and Inspiration

- LJN Logo - I initially wanted to build something with a retro style and I wanted to use temprary logo/brand for the webpage. [LJN](https://tvtropes.org/pmwiki/pmwiki.php/Creator/LJNToys) are a defunct video game company which is perfect to create a retro fit. I like the Rainbow design of the logo in which inspired me to add a colourful feel to the site.

- I had a vey basic mockup for this site. As the headers and footers were very basic. and the each section only contained a device or two each and some text. As complex each device is, they are not complex in design. One looks like a calculator, another is an expandable box (elarged display), and the last is just a save form on top of a list box. Regardless I did sketch out how it might look mobile and large devices, and how each section will look:
    - [Wireframe 1](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TommyJackson85/interactive-calculator/master/assets/images/wireframe1.JPG)
    - [Wireframe 2](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TommyJackson85/interactive-calculator/master/assets/images/wireframe2.JPG)
    - [Wireframe 3](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TommyJackson85/interactive-calculator/master/assets/images/wireframe3.JPG)
    - [Wireframe 4](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/TommyJackson85/interactive-calculator/master/assets/images/wireframe4.JPG)

- The iPhone calcuator - the [iPhone calculator](https://9to5mac.com/2018/05/21/iphone-calculator-app-tips-and-tricks/) was a inspiration/guide for me when designing the structure of the calculator as well developing its functionality. A major difference between this calculator and the iPhone calculator is this calculator builds chain calculations and removes previous inputs from the calculator. The iPhone calculator doesnt allow you to build chain calculations and just keeps evaluating the calculation as you build it. It does however, allow you you to erase previous inputs number digits while you build a number. You can also copy the number data. The other major differenct to between the two calculators, is that you can toggle between a large display and small display.

For the design of the layout of the page, I kept it as simple as possible. The page has has a header and a footer, in which lie on top of the main section. The header just had the name of the website and a logo, while the footer contains any copywrite references.

## Features and their functionality
### Layout of features
The majority of this projected uses the Bootstrap 3 framework for setting up the layout and design of the webpage. HTML tags 'header', 'footer', 'main', 'section', 'aside' and 'div 'are also used for assisting in the layout.

The only elements that dont use bootstrap are the child divs of the .heading div, the footer, #enlarged-display, #main-calculator, #keyboard-instructions multiple sub-headings through out all sections. All these elements were design strictly using HTML, CSS and or SASS/SCSS.

The footer and header are within their respective places. The footer is at the bottom and the header is at the top. Between the footer and header is the 'main' section. The main section reaches the top and the bottom of the page at all times, with the header and footer lying on top of it. I did this by keeping the header's bottom margin and footer's top margin consistantly the negative opposite to their their height, i.e. if the footer's height is 30px, its top margin is set to -30px. As the code for this was repetitive in its structure and usage, I created a SASS mixin called 'height-cover-over' to set the top/bottom margins and heights of each. This mixin was also important because the header's margins and heights kept changing as the screen became bigger, due to the image logo and text changing in sizes.

Within the 'main' section contains two sections, the 'calculator-section' and the 'calculation-backup-section'. The 'calculator section' contains the the 'main-calculator', with the additon of the 'The Mega Calculator' sub-heading, aswell as the 'enlarged-display', the alert heading 'load-status and 'keyboard-instructions'. 'calculation-backup-section' contains the 'main-calculation-backup' section and it's sub-heading 'Calculation Backup', aswell as the alert headings 'save-status' and 'warning-status'.

The 'calculator-section' is consistently at the top of the the main section, while the 'calculation-backup-section' is below it for smaller screens, but set to the right side of the 'calculations section' for larger screens. I kept the space above or below top and bottom of each section as even as possible for the larger browsers and devices, not leaving too much or too little space between the two section. There is enough space to keep each section away from each other and away from the headers and footers, keeping the webpage clean and easy to understand for the user. For smaller devices, I kept the space between the two sections shorter so they are closer to each other. This is to allow both sections to be seen as much as possible while stacked on top of each other.

Both the calculation-backup-section and calculator-section are generally the same width consistantly, but have different amounts of space between their respective borders and child elements. The maximum width of multiple child element in each section varies. When each child div reached their maximum width, they are centered in each section. I created a SASS mixin called 'max-width-margin' and included it in each relevent selector, in which would automatically set the width to 100%, min width to 304px, left/right margins to auto, but the max-width and top/bottom margins could be changed to what they needed to be. Keeping the child divs centered was important for keeping equal spacing, as it provided a better user experience.

### header and footer content
As this project is only a single page application, there isn't much content to put into each section yet. For this project, in its development so far, I decided to use the header to display the web page heading and logo, and the footer to display the copywrite informations. There is no need to have any links to other pages or sections, becuase the content is small.

### .keyboard-instructions (from both the Calculator section and Calculations Display section)
Very little was done in designing these parts. It's purpose was for it to be readable and not take up too much space. It is located below the calculator large devices/screens, due to this section having more space available to hold it. It is below the main 'calculation backup' on smaller devices, because it isnt important information for mobile devices and because I didnt want it being stuck between the two sections. The instructions are for users who wish to use the keyboard inputs to build calculations, toggle between calculation displays and save calculations. The .keyboard-structures HTML is repeated twice, one for each section, however one is always hidden from the screen from CSS's display styling being switched between 'block' and 'none'.


### The calculator section - .main-calculator, .enlarged-display

- Styling of the calculator - When building the main calculator, I decided to keep it more consistent in size, and not have it change to multiple sizes. The only size variations are at smaller screen widths, in which it is a bit smaller. I wanted to have the calculator feel like a real calculator. For example, I kept the screen dark with bright text and the buttons as large as possible for users to be able to press them easily with their fingers on their mobile devices, without pressing other buttons.

- Styling the enlarged display - The 'enlarged-display' is very much an extra tool for the main calculator, but it is located outside the main calculator (but directly above it) to allow it to have more width span. I kept the screen as wide as possible while making sure the inner text wasnt too wide for reading. This was to reduce the height as much as possible so other features can be seen on the screen where possible.

- Calculator screen/display - allows users to view all the reponsive information from pressing the calculator buttons. For most situations, the top of the screen displays the calculation being built while the bottom part displays the inputed data prior to being pushed into the calculation. However both parts can also display messages for the user in regards to certain situations. For example, upon refreshing the web page, the top, displayedCalculation part says 'Begin Calculation'.

- The Switch Calculation Display button and 'enlarged display' - The Switch Calculation Display simply allows the user to switch between an enlarged display to show the full calculation or the #displayed-calc section of the calculator's screen/display. It first initially changes or toggles between two values. Upon on clicking the Switch Calculation Display button, if the boolean value 'displayFullCalc' is equal to true, then this value is set to false, and #enlargedDisplay style.display is set to "none". Once the button is clicked again, 'displayFullCalc' is set to false, and #enlargedDisplay style.display is set to "block". #enlargedDisplay is not on the main calculator div, but instead is right above the calculator at all times. When its style.display is at "block" it is visble, and when it is set to "none" it has disappeared. When ever switchCalculationDisplay is clicked it's innerHTML toggles between two string values. When displayFullCalc is set to true, switchCalculationDisplay says "Hide Full Calculation", and when set to false, the button says "Show Full Calculation". switchCalculationDisplay's innerHTML is also returned after clicking the button. The remainder of the process in switching between the displays is caused by calling displayCalculation(). 

- displayCalculation() function - This function reloads displayedCalc's innerHTML(from the calculator screen) and displayedEntireCalc's innerHTML (from the enlarged display/screen). This function is called quite frequently, from other functions, through out using the calculator. What is shown in both innerHTML depends on what displayedFullCalc is set to. If set to true, displayedEntireCalc.innerHTML will show the full calculation, displayedCalc.innerHTML will say "calculation displayed above" and a class of 'green-display-text' will be added to displayedCalc's class list, to make the text color green matching it with the enlarged display's border. This is strictly for display purposes and to detract attention from the #displayedCalc, and attract attention to the enlarged display instead. If displayedFullCalc is set to false, then displayedEntireCalc.innerHTML becomes empty (but not diplayed anyway), 'green-display-text' is removed from displayedCalc's class list, and displayedCalc's innerHTML will show calculation's data stringed together. However, if the displayed calculation is too long for the smaller display (exceeds 34 in length), then only the end of the calculation (34 in length) is shown, with three dots ('...') at the start of the display. The three dots are used to indicate to the user that the entire calculation is not on display. If the user wants to view the entire calculation, he will have to press the switchCalculationDisplay button to view it above the calculator in the enlarged display. Furthermore, if the calculation array is completely cleared, and displayCalculation() is called, the message 'cleared' will either appear in the enlarged display or the calculator display, indicating to the user that the the calculation array or built calculation is empty.

- Number buttons and number building function - When pressimg the number button, it activates the numberBuilder function. Once a number button is pushed, it pushes it's value into the a global array called 'newNumber'. The Array data is displayed stringed together to form a number as a string, and this is displayed at the bottom of the calculator screen, i.e. #displayedInput HTML. Each number button html ID is "num" + either one of the following: [1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,"Dec"], i.e. #num1, #num4 and #numDec. #numDec pushes a decimal (".") into the newNumber array. Once this is pressed, the #numDec button is disabled until the number is finished being built. It's disable through boolean variable turning true, i.e. disableDec becomes false, when begining a new number, and is turned true when the decimal button is used once.

- divide100 (%) button and functionality - This allows the user to divide their built number by 100. It turns the stringed newNumber into an evaluated real number, and divides it by 100 before, then turns it back to a string, splits into a new array, and finally pushes it back into the newNumber global array (after newNumber is emptied). Sometimes when a user divides the number by 100, it adds a decimal into the new Number. When this happens, disableDec is turned to true.

- plus-minus (±) button and functionilty - this allows the user to turn their positive number into a negative version of the number and visa versa, i.e. '100' turns to '-100' and visa versa. This is done by adding '-' to the first index of the newNumber array function, or if its negative already it slices the '-' from it, i.e. ['1', '2'] turns to ['-1', '2'] and back to ['1', '2']. 

- operator buttons and utilize operator function - these buttons allows the user to utilize an operator for their calculation. They have the choice between, 'add' ("+"), 'subtract' ('-'), 'multiply' ('x'), 'divide' ('/') or 'answer' ('='). With the exception of the 'answer' button, the operator buttons allows the user to constantly switch between a choice of operator. Upon clicking an operator button, it empties the newOperator array and pushes in a value of the operator button clickes, i.e. if the multiply button is clicked, it pushes 'x' into the newOperator array, and then if the subtract button is clicked, it empties 'x' out of the array and pushes '-' into the array. The clicked operator is displayed at the bottom of the screen (#displayedInput). Once the answer button is clicked, it fully evaluates the stringed calculation, if it starts with one number and ends with another. Unlike the other operators, the '=' is not displayed at the #displayedInput, the evaluated calculation's answer is. The '=' is instead displayed at the end of the calculation, just for display.

- Calculation array and pushToCalculation(array) function - The pushToCalculation(array) function is called when ever the user decides to switch between building a number or utilising an operator. It strings together the data from the array, and pushes it into the calculation array. It then empties the array before returning it. If the data from the array is a built number but is only a decimal or negative decimal (i.e. '.' or '-.'), it will have a '0' at the end of it after being pushed into the calculation array, i.e ['-.0']. This is strictly for display purposes because just having a decimal in the calculation display doesn't look clean. Adding a 0 at the end will tell the user it is a 0.

- Switching between number buttons amd operator buttons - At the start of a calculation, when the calculation array is empty, the operator button cannot be used, only a number button can be. When a user finsishes building a number, the user must press an operator button to push the built number into the calculator array. This calls pushToCalculation(newNumber). This number is now the first or next index. After an operator is pressed and is decided to be used, the user needs to start building another number to push the operator into the calculation array. This will call pushToCalculation(newOperator). After a user has evaluated a full calculation (from pressing the 'answer button'),the user can use his answer response (from the displayedInput), as the first number of his next calculaton when the user presses an operator button. If a user decides to press a number button after evaluating the calculation, the calculation restarts, emptying the calculation array and newNumber array, and the pressed number value is pushed in the empty newNumber array. The constant pushing of the previous input into the built calculation, from switching betweeen number and operator usage, makes the building of a calcuation straight forward for the user. There is no need to press a separate button to push the input in. This speeds up the calculation building.

- remove button and function - this button allows the user to back track their calculation even when the calculation is evaluated. When first clicking the remove button, it empties the input arrays (newNumber and newOperator). If it's a number displayed in the input and the last index of the calculation is an operator, it removes the operator at the end of the calculation. If its an operator that is displayed in the input, the button will just clear the input. If it is clicked again a second time, the remove function will remove the last two indexs of the calculation array on each click. It will continue to remove the last two calculation index's as long as the newNumber and newOperator arrays are empty. The remove button will always leave the last index of the calculation array as a number. When the remove button is clicked, it messages "removed" to the user in the input section. Once the the calculation is emptied it messages "cleared" to the user in the calculation section.

- cleared button and function - this button clears the calculation, newOperator and newNumber arrays, and displays 'cleared' in the calculation display and '0' in the input display. It does this through a series of call backs, starting initially by calling clearAllAndDisplay() (discussed below).

- clearing arrays - when ever the JavaScript code needs to empty an array, it either sets the array to an empty array or it is spliced empty. It is spliced through a reusable function called empty(array). When developing the JavaScript code, I would always try to see if setting the variable to an empty array would work. If it doesn't I would use the empty(array) function as a back up.

- other array clearing related javascript functions - The clearInputs() function calls empty(newOperator) and empty(newNumber), clearing both input arrays. The clearAll() function calls the clearInputs() function, empty(calculation) and returns disableDec to false. It is designed to clear everything and restart the calculator. The clearAllAndDisplay() function, also calls clearAll(), and also calls displayCalculation() (discussed above), and then returns displayedInput's innerHTML as "0". displayedCalc's innerHTML is set to 'cleared' due to calling clearAll() and displayCalculation() in order. All these global functions are called for different scenarios in relation to which button is clicked, or which function is called. It helps create a chain of functions and keeps the code clean.

### The Calculation Backup

- The calculation save form and its design - The calculation save form has two important features: the description input (textarea) and the save calculation button. I used the bootstraps 'form-group', 'form-control', 'btn' classes for the design.

- The displayed calculations list design - I used Bootstraps 'list-group' and 'list-group-item' classes to create a simple 'stack of box's' design, with text and buttons in each. This helped provide clarity on the list of items and made it easie for users to read.

- button design in the calculation backup section - Unlike the calculator buttons, I kept the buttons in this section smaller in size, and none of the buttons are stacked above each other, making it easier to click each without pressing the other buttons.

- The description input - This is used to allow users to add a description to the Calculation settings they are about to save. Upon clicking it, it activates the input and the user can write what they want about the calculations data.

- the save calcultion button - This allows the user to save multiple calculation settings. It does this by creating an object, in which contains copies of the three global arrays (calculation, newNumber, newOperator), disableDec boolean variable and the value/written description from the description input. The object also contains a displayedInput field which contains a stringed version of the last inputed value (either from the newOperator or newNumber). If both the newOperator or newNumber are empty, the displayedInput field will read "Input Empty". The displayedInput field in the object is strictly for display purposes. The new saved object is pushed into another array called calculationsList. This can contain up to 10 list items. The displaySavedCalculations() function is then called, within a setTimeout function of 30 miliseconds so it is called after the the returned value. 
saveStatus.innerHTML is changed to "Calculation data saved below!", calculatorStatus.innerHTML is returned as "Calculator data saved to Calculator Backup!" and the "success-border" class is added to the class lists of the calculator and its display. The saveStatus is hidden at large screen sizes because there is no need to have to two messages with the same general meaning next to or close to each other. Having the saveStatus message appear above the save button on small devices, when the save button is clicked, is valuable for the user experience, because the other message is off screen at the time. If the user, however, trys to save more than 10 sets of data. It will only return the warningStatus's (above the Calculations Backup) innerHTML as "Can not save! Calculations List has exceeded it's data limit!" and will add the 'warning-border' class to both calculationDescriptionInput's and saveCalculation's class list. The warning-border class applies a red border. The combination of the red border and warning message tells the user that the calculations list has reached its full capacity.
- The displaySavedCalculations function - This function displays the entire list of saved calculations, displaying the relevent data for each item. For each item, there is a Description section which shows the value from the description input, a Built calculation section which displays the full calculation stringed together and the 'next input' section which shows the 'displayedInput' (from each object of data). If the displayedInput was the previously evaluated answer, 'next input' is replaced with 'answer / next input', indicating to the user that this was the preivous answer. Each displayed item will also contain a 'load' and 'delete' button. If there are no saved calculations, it displays one list item saying 'No Calculations are saved'. The displaySavedCalculations is only called after the 'saved calculation' or 'delete' button is pressed. Each time it is called, it reloads the entire list of items. When the 'save calculation' button is pressed, the most recently saved item on display will contain the animation class of 'new-saved-calculation', while the other saved calculations will have the class 'saved-calculation'. The 'saved-calculation' just gives a light blue background, while 'new-saved-calculation' makes the item background transition from green to blue upon calling displaySavedCalculations(). When displaySavedCalculations() is called after clicking the delete button on one of the items, none of the items on display will have the 'new-saved-calculations' class none will have any transitions and will just have static blue backgrounds. The 'green-to-blue' transition of the new saved item, is to give an indication to the user that it has been added to the list. If either values/data from the calculator or description input were empty, the displayed item's 'Description', 'Built Calculation', or 'next input' / 'answer' fields would display a message telling you. 

- deleteCalc button and function - when a user clicks the delete button on one of the saved items, the item is removed from the saved calculations list. Upon clicking, an animation class called 'removing-list-item' is first added to the buttons parentElement's (i.e. the whole displayed calculation item) class list, in which fades its opacity from 1 to 0, giving the user the notion that the item has been removed. Then, within a setTimeout of 500 miliseconds, the saved calculation object is removed from the calculationsList and displaySavedCalculations() is called. The setTimeout is to allow for the animation item to fade out first, before calling the displaySavedCalculations(). When displaySavedCalculations is officially called, the list is redisplayed showing that the item has been removed. deleteCalc finally returns warningStatus.innerHTML = "Calculation data deleted!" (located above the Calculations Backup).

- loadCalc button/function and the scrollToTop function - when a user clicks the load button on one of the saved items, it sets the four global variables (calculation, newOperator, newNumber, disableDec) to equal the related values of the item's object data, i.e. calculation = calculationsList[this.value].savedCalculation.slice(). Then the displayAll function is called, reloading the data to the calculator. To give a clear message to the user of the changes, the 'success-border' class is added to the 'mainCalculator' and its 'display', in which gives each a green border. The loadCalc also returns loadStatus.innerHTML = "Calculation data loaded succesfully!", in which tells the user the data has been loaded. The scrollToTop() function is also called, in which scrolls the screen to the calculator so it can be seen. This transition brings the user back to the calculator, so he/she can start working on his previously saved calculation. The scrollToTop() function doesnt use any CSS animations or transitions, it uses Javascript's Math, scrollTo, scrollTop, self.pageYOffset, offsets and other functionality to create a smooth scroll. The original code used for the scrollToTop() function comes from this [link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10063380/smooth-scroll-without-the-use-of-jquery).

### More notes of the status headings, border changes and transitions/animations.

When placing the status headings on the dom, their locations were relevent to what they are alerting the user to. The 'calculator-status' heading was best suited to be above the main calculator, so when the user has to be scrolled to the the calculator when the calculator is not shown on screen, the calculator-status would always be shown to them. If the calculator-status was located where the save-status or warning-status were, it would be hidden from the user on small screens, upon loading a saved calculation. Simularly, when saving a calculation, the 'save-status' heading and the most recently saved item (with its green to blue transition) are both close to the save form and are clearly visible to the user at small screen sizes/positions. This is removed on larger screen sizes, because the 'calculator-status', is of more importance. Any changes related to the Calculator should always be notified by the calculator, with the message related to the calculator. The 'warning-status' heading, in which is required for the saved-calculation button, for when telling the user the save capacity has reached its limit, is also located conveniently to where the 'save-status' is located. Because nothing happens to the Calculator Data, there is no need to keep show an alert by the calculator. There only needs to be an alert by the Calculations Backup, to tell the user nothing was saved here. The only exception, in relation to alert headings, is the delete button, which also uses the 'warning-status' to alert the user it has deleted a calculation. The delete button doesn't scroll the user to the top where the warning-status heading is located, so when the warning-status is off screen it wont be visible. I felt the fade-out transition of the item, after being deleted, was enough to indicate to the user that it has been removed from the list. I didn't want to inconveniently bring the user back to the top of the screen for another reminder message. The combination of the change of status headings, applied borders and the use of animation/transitions were to create a strong enough message to the user whenever possible and to create a better user experience, with reliance on one or more of the alert types. With the 'warning-status' being red and the 'save-status'/calculator-status' being green, it gives a clearer message to the user that one is switched to from the other. For example, when the save capacity is exceeded, the user is notified through the text color change, aswell as the message change and border changes.

- clearPageAlerts function - As much as it is important to alert the user of major changes to the calculator and calculations list, it is also important to not have the alerts on all the time. The clearPageAlerts function is used to clear and remove all status headings, alert border classes (as discussed above). It makes the inner HTML of 'save-status', 'calculator-status' and 'warning-status' an empty string, and removes the alert classes 'success-border' and 'warning-border' from the DOM elements where they would be applied. The clearPageAlerts function is called back in most button functions and some reusable functions, usually at the early stages of each funtion. This also makes sure all alerts are cleared before a new alert needs to appear. This process keeps the page as clean as possible. For example, when a user starts building a calculation on the calculator after loading a calculation, it is a better experience for the user to not have the the 'success-border's on the calculator' and for the 'calculator-status' to be removed. 

### Keyboard input functionality

- document.onkeypress(e) function - This is the function that allows users to use the keyboard to build or save calculations, aswell as switch calculations display. It takes the 'key' or 'shiftKey' value of the pressed keyboard button. The 'key/shiftKey' value is passed through a switch function, in which calls the correct function, in relation to the keyboard input list below, i.e. key 'd' will call switchCalculationDisplay.onclick(). If a non related key is pressed nothing is returned. The keyboard buttons cannot be used to build or save calculations when the 'calculation-description-input' on the save form is clicked/activate. Anywhere else on the dom needs to be clicked to be able to use this feature. The use of the keyboard is very important for users to be able to build calculations faster from using laptops, desktops or any other device that doesn't have touch screen. The following are the list of keyboard input buttons, in which will allow you to build and save calculations form the use of the keyboard:
    - numbers: 0 - 9;
    - decimal: '.'; 
    - add: '+'; 
    - subtract: '-'; 
    - multiply: 'x', '*'; 
    - divide: '/'; 
    - answer: '=', 'Return'; 
    - divide number by 100: '%'; 
    - plus-minus: '±'; 
    - remove previous inputs: 'r'; 
    - clear entire calculation: 'c'; 
    - switch calculation displays: 'd'; 
    - save calculation: 's'. 

#### Further discussion on color variations

I have talked about some color changes above, particularly in relation color transitions and changes from animations and JavaScript code. This section goes into further detail on the remaining color variations.

The following are the list of color variables I created with SASS/SCSS:
- light-turquoise
- turquoise
- slight-darker-turquoise;
- dark-turquoise
- blue
- light-blue
- extra-light-blue
- purple
- dark-purple
- green
- light-green
- red
- orange 
- yellow 
- white 

These variables are used for different backgrounds, borders, buttons and text. 

#### Main background and secondary parent div colors, and their headings

For the the main background (.home div) I set the background to slight-darker-turquoise. For the calculation-backup-section and the calculator-section, I didnt give them their own background color. I only gave the main-calculation-backup and main-calculation-backup their own background. This was because I didn't want the user to feel each section, or device, was separate to each other and to give the notion they interact with each other.

The main-calculation-backup, main-calculation-backup, header and footer all have a plain turquoise background color and white text. This turquoise color is to match in with the background colour. As both sections are not separate from each it, the blend of colours makes them feel more connected.   

I set the text colour of all these these backgrounds to white

#### The 'feature-color' SASS mixin

Most of remaining buttons and sections all have different background colors and text colors, but take on the same 1px solid border with a color of dark-turquoise. I used a SASS mixin called 'feature-colors', in which gives the each part this border, but the background color is used as an the main argument of the mixin. If the background color of the feature is to be light-blue, extra-light-blue, yellow or light-turquoise, then its text color is turned to dark-purple. If it embodies any dark color background its text becomes white. The use of these text colors is to keep the text readable.

#### Calculator features and enlarged display

For all the button types on the main calcululator, I wanted to have them feel separate to the other buttons possible. For the number/decimal buttons, I set the backround to them as red. For the the operator (except the answer button) buttons, I set the background to them as blue. These are the two most differentiated color backgrounds to keep them feeling separated. For the 'Answer' and 'Show Full Calculation Buttons', I set their background color to green. The color green can be seen as a positive 'success' color. For this reason, I felt it was the perfect background color for the Answer button. Furthermore, I felt it suited the Show Full Calculation button because that button is essentially an on and off button for the enlarged display. 

The divide100 and plus-minus button background is 'orange', because its a color close to the 'red' color of the number buttons. These two buttons are simular to the number buttons because they are tools to build numbers aswell. They are used to alter the number input. For this, 'orange' felt like a good contrast to 'red'.

The 'remove' and 'clear' buttons have purple backgrounds becomes I felt they needed a srong colour. Removing previously inputed data or clearing entire calculations are significant changes and I felt a strong 'warning' color is more suited to them.

For the calculator display and enlarged-display, I set the background color to 'dark-purple' to make it both feel like a calculator screen. The text being white, also feels like the iPhone calculation text and makes feel more like an electronic input. The enlarged-display, initially includes the color schemes of the feature-colors mixin, but its border is changed to a thick green border, and its kept this at all times. The green border is to make it feel like its on all the time.

#### Calculations backup section

For the load and save buttons, I game them green backgrounds. This is because they are representitive of possitve outcomes. In contrast, the red background is more suited to the delete button because its outcome can be seen as negative. A red colour can be seen as a warning sign.

The background colour of the textarea input (form-control) was set to extra light blue because I wanted the text to be a dark colour, to feel like a regular text input. Simularly, I wanted the list-group-item and saved-calculation to be have a light turquoise background so it would have a dark text colour. This was to keep it consistant with the text colour of the form control text colour.

#### Button hovering

When hovering all buttons, their backgrounds turn yellow to give and indication of interactivity.

#### Other text color variations

The alerts (headings and borders) have suited color scheme for respective tone. The save-status, calculator-status and success-border are green colors to alert a success and the warning-status and warning-border are red to alert a removal or non response.

#### Consistency in the color schemes

When setting out the color schemes, consistency and minimum use different colors was a major requirement. This is why the header, footer, main-calculator and main-calculation-backup all have the same same background colors.

Furthermore, the consistant use fo variations in turquoise color schemes keeps the whole backdrop as consistant as possible, and gives the notion that the two main sections are not completely separate and that they communicate with each other.

I first defined the calculator buttons colors before defining the calculations-backup buttons colors. For the calculations-backup, I only used two background colours from the calculators buttons for the calculations-backup buttons, so I wasnt applying different button colours for the sake of it. 

Simularly, I kept the text colour either dark or white (depending on the background colour) and most borders were of the same dark color. I mostly only used green and red colours for alert borders and headings, with the exception of the green border for the enlarged display.

As the logo of the site is a rainbow, I wanted to match its tone and make the general web page rich in color, but not entirely multi coloured.

### Features Left to Implement

- A register/login function - One feature I could use is an account system, where the user can register an account and login. The user will be able to save the list of calculations to her/his account. The user could reload his saved calculations lists, to continue working on them another. The project feels very limited in its current saving abilities because the calculations you save are only temporarily saved. You can use them as long as you don't reload the page. This kind of development would require a back end and may require a complete restructuring of the front end. To implement this feature, I may just rebuild the project from scratch. 

- Further development to the description input and an editing system - As an additional feature, I would consider allowing the user to add more dynamic descriptions to their numerical data. The user could add a brief description to their specific number data (from each saved item), in both the saved calculation and saved next input / answer. To implement this, I would add an editing system, in which the user would press an edit button (within each item) to add brief descriptions. After pressing the button, the user would be able to click on each number within the saved item, and a brief description. The user would press 'return' to save each. The brief description would be within a tooltip next to the number data (after its saved), and upon hover the tooltip, the user would be able to view the brief description, i.e. next to the number 5 a tooltip might read 'apples'. If deciding to utilise an editing system, I would also allow the user to edit the main 'description' section of each item. I might allow them to alter the number / operator data, although this might make things too complex for a quality user experience.

- Further development to the delete or save functions - I may add a popup feature for the screen, when an item is deleted or saved, to alert the user about the changes. This might be a better way to alert the user. The user will be able to remove the popup as it will have an 'x' in the corner.

- Move the Save Form to the Main Calculator - In planning this project, I considered having the Save form at the top of the list of calculations would be best practice. In heinseight of developing this application, I think it might have been better to have the saving capabilities, with description input, loacated on the calculator itself and just have the list of calculations to the right of the main calculator. I now feel this would provide a better User Experience, particularly for users using the application for the first time. Users would of had a better innitial understanding of what the Save Form is for if its located on the Calculator device. With this in mind I would rename the the calculations-backup section 'calculations-list'. The save button, followed by the description input, would be located bellow the number buttons, and I would of gave it the same margins and sizes of the 'Switch Calculations Display' button. In general, the functional changes for this would be minimal, but the process, but the process would be long. I would have to updated this README file, the Jasmine Testing files, CSS and main JavaScript code.

- A button to hide the 'calculations-backup' section - I may consider giving the user have the option to hide the calculations backup section. This would useful at larger screen sizes, where the calculations-backup-section is located to the right of the calculator-section. This would allow for wider width span of the enlarged screen, when the built calculations get bigger. I would have a 'Hide' button on the calculations-backup section. Rather than hiding the section completely, I would just have it reduced in width to one Bootstrap grid column, i.e. the bootstrap class col-md-1. The 'Hide' button would then read 'Expand'. This button would also change the grid column of the 'calculator-section' to col-md-11, expanding this section. This may cause problems with Bootstraps CSS code, so I might have to remove Bootsrap from these sections and just use CSS. I may also look online to see if Bootstrap has feature that does this. If it doesn't, then I maybe look for other code.

- Putting the 'keyboard-instructions' in a tooltip - I am strongly considering putting the instructions in a tooltip. Next to the tooltip would be a heading saying 'Keyboard Input Instructions'. The keyboard instructions are only for laptop/desktop devices, so it would be more convenient to keep them in a tooltip. I would put the tooltip at the top of the page, or maybe within the header so it is visible upon loading the screen.

## Technologies Used

- [JavaScript / ES6](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Learn/Getting_started_with_the_web/JavaScript_basics)
    - JavaScript and ES6 syntax was used to develop the majority of the functionality of the web page. I built multiple onclick and gloabal functions to create responses from interacting witht he DOM. 
- [smooth-scroll-without-the-use-of-jquery](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10063380/smooth-scroll-without-the-use-of-jquery)
    - Code post I found on this stackoverflow page, which I used for my scrollToTop() function. It was the best vanilla JavaScript I used for my project, to allow for a smooth scroll to the top of the page. I tested it on Safari, Firefox and Chrome browsers and it worked on all three browsers. I used the majority of the code, but tweeked it for my project. Credit goes to Andrew Johnson for the use of his code, to [kamal](https://stackoverflow.com/users/1317883/kamal) for posting the code.
- [Bootstrap 3](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/3.3/)
    - I used Bootstrap to create the general framework of the page, and for the majority of the styling of the 'calculations-backup-section'.
- [CSS](https://www.w3schools.com/css/default.asp)
    - I used CSS to style the whole site, where it was needed.
- [SASS/SCSS](https://sass-lang.com/)
    - I used SASS, in the SCSS format, to add object oriented programming logic to my CSS code. This was to make the CSS code cleaner through the use of SASS mixins, variables and SASS's ability to nest css selectors in relation to the HTML DOM. 
- [Babel](https://babeljs.io/)
    - The project uses Babel to compile any ES6 JavaScript syntax into traditional JavaScript, to make the website work on all browsers and devices. The Babel environment was downloaded through npm packages.
- [Jasmine](https://jasmine.github.io/)
    - The project uses Jasmine, so I could use the it to build the webpage though test driven development. I hard coded the Jasmine files into the head of the testing html file.
-[Jasmine setTimeout/setInterval](https://makandracards.com/makandra/32477-testing-settimeout-and-setinterval-with-jasmine)
    - This was used to fix a timing issue, related to the deleteCalc function in which uses a setTimeout to allow for a CSS animation to finish before calling.

## Files types and their purpose

All CSS / SCSS related files were strictly used for styling the project. The main JavaScript files were mostly used for developing responses and function from interating with the DOM. For most cases, I avoided changing the CSS styling  with the JavaScript file. If I needed to change the Styling of the DOM through JavaScript, I would use Javascript to add a class to the a DOM elements class list. The only style changing done through JavaScript was the changes to the enlarged-display's display, in which it was constantly changed between 'block' and none. JavaScript files were also used for automatic testing through the Jasmine framework.

## Testing

- Jasmine testing - I set up the Jasmine testing environment in a 'spec' folder. The folder contains a tests.html file, aswell as spec jasmine/javascript files for the following buttons and function categories: (1) Number Buttons; (2) Operator Buttons; (3) Keyboard Buttons; (4) Save Calculation Button; (5) Other Buttons; (6) Display Saved Calculations Function; (7) Reusable Functions.
    - tests html file - This file allows me to test the my main.js file on a separate html file. I copied and pasted the html from index.html to the tests.html in order for my tests to be able to read a DOM. This meant I didn't have to rebuild my main javascript code for testing. The HTML on the tests.html is hidden because it is wrapped in a div which has a class of 'hidden'. I applied styling to this 'div' on the html element it self and not in the CSS file, in which I turned its 'display' styling to 'none'. This hides all the unecessary HTML. Only Jasmines testing page appears.
    - Building the test basis - Prior to building my test files for each button, I would build most of the main code (i.e. for each button function or reusable function) on the main.js file. Then I would build the test basis of each button type ('answer button', other operator button, number button,) with the 'Describe' function. I would then build test scenarios related to the button with the use of the 'it' function. 
    - Test scenarios - For most scenarios I would reset the related global variables to their correct setting that fits each scenario. For examples, sometimes I would already have a calculation array built, or I would set the disableDec to 'true'. I would then use the 'expect' function to test the calling of a function's outcomes or non outcomes ( i.e. expect(num4.onclick().toBe('4')) or expect(clearAll()).not.toBe(true) ; ) . I would also test all the global variables to make sure they have changed or haven't changed (i.e. expect(calculation).toEqual([]) and/or expect(disableDec).toBe(false);). I would do as much tests as I need on each related element of code in each function.
    - Refactering the code - I would usually have each expect test fail, pass it and then maybe refactor the code being tested. The more tests I built the more faults or errors I would come across in the code, which required me to refactor the code. Further more, when I moved onto another button function to test, I would sometimes find I need to add to the previous code of other functions. This was the case when I built and tested the operator utiliser function, in which I would also built and tested the pushToCalculation function. I found after building them I needed to go back to the number building function, to make sure it would push the newOperator data into the calculation when it was needed. 
    - Running the tests - When Running the tests, I would do it in linear order and not at random. This was because each each test is built as a separate scenario anyway and becuase when testing them at random, an odd error would occur. Whether or not these tests run at random is irrelevent to the collection of tests beacuase they are not connected.
    - Longer 'it' functions - Some of the 'it' functions were very long. They had multiple expect tests and calling of functions. They would usually embody a pattern of interaction to the DOM to see multiple responses. Due to the amount of code, I would usually write longer descriptions of the it functions. The testing files 'saveCalcButtonSpec.js', 'keyboardButtonsSpec.js', 'otherButtonSpec.js' are clear examples of this. As a future development, I may rewrite these tests to keep them more clear.
    -  Testing displaySavedCalculations() function - I had to split one of my 'it' tests into two 'it' tests due to a timing issue from pressing the deleteCalc button (because it uses a setTimeout to allow time for an animation/transition to pass, and then recalls displaySavedCalculations()). Prior to the 'it' test that calls the deleteCalc button, I called both beforeEach() and afterEach() functions, with the former creating a jasmine spy on the displaySavedCalculations() function, then installing a jasmine clock, and the latter uninstalling the jasmine clock. Then when the next 'it' function is called, it innitially calls deleteCalc.onclick(). After this I delayed the next tests with a setTimeout of 500 miliseconds and then called jasmine.clock().tick(501). This corrected the timing of the next test. I discovered this process through this [link](https://makandracards.com/makandra/32477-testing-settimeout-and-setinterval-with-jasmine)
    - scrollToTop() function hasn't been testing - this was the only function which wasn't tested. This was because it is not code I developed myself and because (it was from [stackOverFlow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/10063380/smooth-scroll-without-the-use-of-jquery).) I felt manually testing was enough testing for it. It is also quite complex for Jasmine testing. For a future development on this, I may test it. 

- Manual testing.
    - While building each button, I would also test the calculator manually from the chrome browser. After compiling the code into the build/main.bundle.js through babel, I would test the calculator on chrome, firefox and safari browsers, to make sure it is compatable with all browsers.
    - I tested every button click, and buttons response to see if any errors came up in the browser. If there was an error I would refactor the code to make sure the error never returns. 
    - Manual testing was valuable for testing transitions/animations, because any problems with them are visible to the eye. The opacity, color transitions work perfectly, and are perfectly timed and deliver a good user experience. The scrollToTop function was not working in Safari before, so I went searching online for new code to make it work on Safari. I found a longer set of more complex code, which now allows the screen to scroll to the top on Safari and mobile browsers, when the code is called.
    - I tested margins, sizes and paddings on every browser in which I tested each from its minimal mobile size browser. For Safari browsers, it was important that I tested a minimal screen width of 320px. The width of 304px in Chrome usually equals 320px in Safari, so I tested 304px as the minimum screen size.


- Reviewing user stories - I reviewed my user stories and tested my application to see if it meets the requirements.
    - Bothe the Calculator and Calculation Backup section fully functional upon loading the webpage.
    - I want to be able to build long calculations, with numbers and opperators, and then evaluate the calculations with the 'equals' button.
    - I can build a long calculations from pressing the buttons on the calculator and using keyboard keys. I can then evaluate the built calculation, aslong as it starts and ends with a number, by clicking the equals button, or pressing the keyboard keys 'Enter', 'Return' or '='.
    - I can view my built calculation in the small screen on the calculate. I can see the entire calculation as long as its length doesnt exceed the width of the screen. I can atleast see the end of the calculation at all times, in which shows my last inputed data.
    - If my calculation is too long for the calculator screen, I can still view it in full in a separate larger screen, when I click the 'Show Full Calculation' button. The calculator tells me where to find the full calculation after I clicked this button. The enlarged screen is conveniently located above the calculator. I can hide the full screen by pressing the button again, in which brings the calculation back to the calculator. I can consistantly toggle between the two screens by clicking this button.
    - I can remove the last inputs from the displayed input and/or displayed calculation, by clicking the 'remove' button. When I click this button multiple times in a row, in keeps removing the last two elements of the built calculation and will always leaves a number as the last inputed element until it completely clears the calculation. The button always leaves the message "removed" when clicked and when it clears the calculation it will leave a "cleared" message on the calculator or enlarged display screen.
    - I can completely clear the entire calculation and next inputs by clicking the "clear" button. After clicking this button it leaves the message "cleared" and number 0 in the input section. I can start a new calculation when I press the button.
    - I can build a number as long as the width of the calculator screen by pressing the number buttons. Once the built number exceeds its number length it messages me telling me it "exceeds limit".
    - I can utilise a plus, multiply, substract or divide operator, by clicking their respective buttons, and continuously change my choice of the four operators, when clicking each.
    - When I press a number or operator button, I can always see the changes appear on the screen when pressing the number/operator buttons. After each button press, the input and/or built calculation changes.
    - The built number or operator remains separate to the main built calculation, until I switch from one to the other. When I press an operator button, after building a number, the number is pushed into the built calculation. When I press a number button, after utilising an operator, the operator is pushed into the calculation.
    - After evaluating the calculation, an equals sign ("=") appears at the end of the evaluated calculation telling me it had been evaluated, and the answer to the evaluation appears below the built calculation. I can use this answer as my first number for my next calculation, by pressing an operator number, or I can restart a brand new calculation by pressing a number button.
    - I can switch a built number to its negative or positive opposite by clicking the 'plus-minus' button (±) on the calculator. For example, the number 5 would turn to -5 after clicking, and it will turn back to 5 when clicked again. Wether the number is a possitive or negative, I can push it to the calculation in its current state when I press an operator number.
    - I can divide my built number by 100 by clicking the 'divide by 100' button (%). I can divide the number as many times as I want, and the number can be pushed into the calculation when I start using an operator.
    - I can save my calculator data and settings, and keep it stored as long as the webpage is not closed or reloaded. Each saved calculation can be found in the form of a list item box of a 'saved calculations list'. Within each list item, I can see my saved calculations and data inputs/evaluated answers. Prior to saving a calculation, I can write a description of the calculation data within a 'textarea' input. As long as their is text typed into the textarea, the text will be included in the saved list item's details. I can save up to 10 saved calculation items. After saving 10 items, I cant save anymore, until I delete one or more of the items.
    - Within each saved item, I can find a load button, in which on clicking, reloads my saved calculator progress. After loading the calculator progress, I can continue working on the calculation. I can save my calculation progress again as a new saved list item.
    - Within each saved item, I can find a delete button, in which on clicking, removes the item data and its display.
    - Upon clicking 'Save Calculation', 'Delete' and 'Load' buttons, I am clearly alerted they have been activated through a combination of different message alerts (above each section), styling changes and animations/transitions. Depending on the button pressed and its outcome, there is either a message above one or both sections. If there is an error upon clicking them, i.e. if the saved calculations list has reached its capacity, I am alerted that no more can be saved and a red border is applied to the save button and its parent div. If the list hasnt reached its capacity, I am alerted that it has been saved from two messages above both sections on small screens. If I succesfully load a calculation, I get a message above the calculator telling me so. Clicking 'Save Calculation' and/or 'Load' also highlights the Calculator with a green border, when both are a success, telling me the data from the calculator is saved to the Calculator Backup, or if data is loaded to the Calculator. Animations/transitions are also used to display actions. If an item is deleted, the item is faded out before the saved calculations list is reloaded. If a calculation is saved, a 'green to blue' background transition occurs on the new displayed saved item. If an item is loaded and the calculator is off screen, the screen scrolls me back to the calculator showing the loaded data.


## Deployment

The website is deployed on GitHub pages at: https://tommyjackson85.github.io/interactive-calculator/
from the Github repository: https://github.com/TommyJackson85/interactive-calculator

It has been deployed from the beginning of this project. All project folders and files have been pushed to the GitHub repository during development, with the exception of node_modules (see .gitignore file).

A '404' error occured when deploying the website, due to GitHub pages trying use the README.md file. The error was avoided when I excluded the README file from the _config.yml file.

I would develope the project in Visual Studio Code's editing system and I would keep pushing my changes from the its internal terminal.

## Credits

### Media
- [TheLJN Logo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Acclaim_Entertainment_subsidiaries)
    - An old video game/toy company sold to Acclaim Entertainment back in 1990, but was dissolved by 1995. Acclaim filed for bankruptcy in 2004. Current owenership of LJN brand is unknown.

### Acknowledgements

- I received inspiration and guide for the development of the calculator's functionality, from the [iPhone calculator](https://9to5mac.com/2018/05/21/iphone-calculator-app-tips-and-tricks/).
- Received further guidance from th wikipedia page about the Calculator [Calculator Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calculator)